---
layout: page
title: "Book Project"
--- 

My book project promises to advance thought on the institutional constraints of resource misallocation in weakly institutionalized countries, analyzing how domestic political competition and elite power-sharing determine the allocation of foreign-financed public goods. While the existing literature shows that donor preferences affect the equity of foreign aid allocation, I demonstrate that, due to the institutional fragmentation and principal-agent problem of foreign financiers, domestic political incentives play the dominant role in defining subnational development finance distribution. Moreover, I show that an increase in political competition under weak institutions may not necessarily lead to more equitable distribution, but may instead amplify pre-existing clientelism and increase political targeting in development finance allocation. Additionally, I demonstrate that regional favoritism may be constrained when political competition combines with broad-based power-sharing of ethnolinguistic elites in the inner circle of executive power. My empirical findings are drawn based on a mixed-methods analysis of geocoded data of Chinese and World Bank projects in 48 African countries between 1999 and 2012, over 170 in-depth field interviews with key stakeholders in Beijing, Washington, D.C., Zambia, Ethiopia, and Ghana, as well as administrative data on all roads financed by multilateral institutions, OECD countries, and China between 1995 to 2021 in Zambia, Ethiopia, and Ghana. 

My research bridges international and comparative political economy by analyzing the demand side (recipient countries) and the supply side (foreign financiers) in equilibrium. My findings challenge the previous research by demonstrating that, while conditionalities may constrain the scale of regional favoritism, they do not prevent it from happening. External resources are essentially channeled into the existing domestic service delivery and elite power-sharing patterns. Moreover, while previous research suggests that more democratic recipient countries distribute development finance in more equitable ways, I demonstrate that hybrid regimes or flawed democracies have a much higher likelihood than both closed autocracies and liberal democracies to distribute foreign finance to leaders’ coethnic regimes. I argue that this is because, political competition under weak institutions may strengthen extant clientelism in resource allocation. Leaders in hybrid regimes face more electoral uncertainty than autocratic leaders, but fewer constraints than democratic leaders when using resources for their benefit. 

